Force login in reset-credentials to federated users (#37214)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/upgrading/topics/changes/changes-26_1_2.adoc

== Notable changes

Notable changes where an internal behavior changed to prevent common misconfigurations, fix bugs or simplify running {project_name}.

=== Send Reset Email force login again for federated users after reset credentials

Previously the reset credentials flow (*forgot password* feature) maintained the user logged in after the reset credentials if the same authentication session (same browser) was used. For federated user providers this behavior can be a security issue. Imagine a provider implementation that detects the user as *enabled*, performs the password change successfully but the validation of the user password fails for some reason. In this scenario the reset credentials flow allowed a user to be logged in after the successful password change that would have not been allowed to login using the normal browser flow. This scenario is not a common case but should be avoided by default.

> For this reason now the authenticator `reset-credential-email` (*Send Reset Email*) has a new configuration option called `force-login` (*Force login after reset*) with values `true` (always force the login), `false` (previous behavior that maintains the user logged in if the same authentication session is used), and `only-federated` (default value that forces federated users to authenticate again and maintains previous behavior for internal DB users).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason now the authenticator `reset-credential-email` (*Send Reset Email*) has a new configuration option called `force-login` (*Force login after reset*) with values `true` (always force the login), `false` (previous behavior that maintains the user logged in if the same authentication session is used), and `only-federated` (default value that forces federated users to authenticate again and maintains previous behavior for users stored in {project_name}'s internal database).
```
